# Chapter 1

Bill Palmer is an IT director at a manufacturing and retail parts company generating `$4B/year`.

While Bill drives to work, they are facing intermittent network outages. Suddenly a HR VP calls a for urgent meeting.

Business is declining, and their main competitor has just announced an innovative new service, so Bill thinks he will be
fired. But the HR VP assures him that she got good news.

With frequent turnover in the CIO role (including the current one), Bill is unexpectedly promoted to VP, a role he is
initially reluctant to accept.

After a conversation with the CEO, **Steve Masters**, Bill accepts the position. His main goal: ensure a stable IT
department (reliable like a toilet that never overflows), allowing the company to focus on the Phoenix Project — a
strategic plan to close the gap with the competition.

Bill’s first major challenge is fixing an urgent payroll system issue before the end of the workday.

## Notes

- The IT department operates in constant "firefight mode"

  - It looks naturally underfunded (IT is a cost center in this company, not a revenue source)

- Communication between departments is poor:

  - Marketing promotes features without consulting IT on feasibility.
  - Bill resents HR’s training

- Mistrust and lack of collaboration are evident (maybe due to the lack of good communication)
  - Bill is wary of the network team’s capabilities.
  - Frequent IT management turnover indicates instability.
  - Fear of HR’s influence indicates a culture of caution and low morale.
  - On chapter 2 Bill also complains about developers (always crashing production systems)
