# Chapter 27

After all the interviews, Bill meets with the entire IT team. The goal is to map every performance measurement to
actions and controls that IT can implement to ensure it is helping the company achieve them. The first value of this
analysis is to make explicit that the company needs IT efforts to increase business value. Historically, this department
is viewed as a cost center. The table created by Bill will, at a minimum, clarify to upper management that they should
value the department.

By the end of the day, the generated slides with proposals are to be validated by the business and finally approved by
the CFO. The CFO’s reception of the document is not very positive, as he sees the information as obvious and something
that upper management communicates regularly. The question behind the criticism is how they missed it for all these
years.

With Erik’s intervention, Dick (the CFO) sees that the blame goes both ways. IT was not included in most business
efforts, and he finally realizes that the company must treat IT risks as business risks, which need to be managed. In
the end, Dick approves the plan to spend three weeks refining the alignment between IT and business goals, especially
when discussing Phoenix and achieving the IRR hurdle.

John also reaches out with good news. He has finally understood how they managed to pass the SOX audit and has rewritten
the entire compliance program to account for the checks already made by the finance team. Now they can support the
entire process and eliminate redundant checks, drastically reducing its scope. He also proposes root cause analysis of
vulnerabilities that could compromise the audit and suggests that changes in the audit scope should be flagged as such
and produce documentation that auditors will need later.

The final resolution is to routinely pair IT and development resources with people from the security team so that
security concerns become part of both teams' culture.

## Notes

**Mastering the First Way**:

- _Understanding the Flow of Work_: identify bottlenecks and inefficiencies.
- _Increasing the Flow of Work_: eliminate delays and reduce handoffs between teams.
- _Minimizing Waste_: streamlining processes to avoid unnecessary work and rework.

## New Vocabulary

`IRR`

> Internal Rate of Return is a metric used to estimate the profitability of potential investments.

`Hurdle Rate`

> The minimum return that must be achieved before performance-related incentives kick in.

`MRP system`

> Material Requirements Planning system, which is a type of production planning and inventory control system used to
> manage manufacturing processes.

`CIA`

> Confidentiality, integrity and availability of data.
